individuals
are able to gain far more when they expend effort to build on their greatest talents
than when they spend a comparable amount of effort to remediate their
weaknesses (Clifton & Harter, 2003)

First, he believed that talents could be operationalized, studied, and capitalized
upon in work and academic settings. Talents are manifested in life experiences
characterized by yearnings, rapid learning, satisfactions, and timelessness. These
trait-like “
raw materials” are believed to be the products of normal healthy
development and successful experiences over childhood and adolescence.
“
Strengths” are viewed as extension of talent. More precisely, the strength
construct combines talents with associated knowledge and skills and is defined as
the ability to consistently provide near-perfect performance in a specific task.
(Though labeled the Clifton StrengthsFinder, the instrument actually measures
the talents that serve as the foundations for strengths development.)

Second, Clifton considered success to be closely associated with personal talents
and strengths in addition to the traditional constructs linked with analytical
intelligence


Specifically, the strengths-based development process encourages individuals to
build strengths by acquiring skills (i.e., basic abilities) and knowledge (i.e., whatyou know, including facts and meaning-making from experiences) that can
complement their greatest talents in application to specific tasks.

The CSF’
s intended purpose is to facilitate personal development and growth. It
is intended and used as a springboard for discussion with managers, friends,
colleagues and advisers, and as a tool for self-awareness. CSF results are viewed
as a preliminary hypothesis to be verified with the respondent. Accordingly,
feedback about talents and strengths development often forms the basis of further
interventions that help individuals capitalize on their greatest talents and apply
them to new challenges. For this application, the psychometric properties of the
instrument are more than adequate

describe their children in terms of their personal characteristics and how they
behave in a variety of situations.

The moderator asked the
participants to describe their children in terms of their personal characteristics and how they
behave in a variety of situations.
1.
Describe your child. Talk to us about the personal characteristics that you see as most
descriptive of your child.

2. Think about a time when you saw your child be very successful. Describe for us that
success and tell us what behaviors led most to that success.
3.
Think about a time when you observed your child really being who they are, what were
they like?
4. What “attitude habits” do you see your child most often display?
5. How does your child deal with conflict?
6. How does your child take care of “their stuff,” like their room?
7. If you were to imagine your child acting very much out of character, what would they be
doing, how would they behave?
8.
If your child is alone for a little while with no other children around, what would you
expect they would do?
9.
Would you say that your child has changed much within the last two years? If they have
changed, how would you describe these changes?
